# Personal-Riot-Account-MANAGER

1. What is the motivation behind creating this and what is the general purpose of this project?
   I play a game called League of Legends and in order to play with my friends, I need accounts that are within 3 ranked divisions of my friend's account. To do this, I have made a lot of different accounts and wanted a single solution place where I can have the accounts' IDs, usernames, passwords, and ranks. This didnt exist, so I wanted to create a python program that could take the account ID and username/password as input, make various calls to the Riot Games API to fetch account data and parse rank/division before entering it into a csv file with all the other accounts. Then, the stored accounts can be ordered by rank and displayed so that I can get my username/password for whichever ranked account I wish to log into at that time. 
2. How do I use it?
  As I'm not a verified developer with Riot Games, I cannot host my own service to allow users to make API calls. In order for you to utilize this program, you would need to update api_key with your personal Riot Games API key before running main. It will create a csv for you containing any accounts you add, which you can currently only do through legacy account ID (predating the Username #tag era). If you're unsure of your legacy Id, go to https://www.op.gg/ and enter your tag, the legacy id is found just below your current username and tag next to "prev.".

Lessons Learned:
- This was my first practical application of any API project, so it involved a lot of data storage reading/writing from/into a csv. Navigating an API like the Riot Games API was challenging because the amount of API calls I could make in any given second or minute was extremely rate limited. To avoid unnecessary complications or inefficiency in terms of time to run (specifically with the functionality that updates the ranks of all accounts stored in the database), I needed to store certain IDs that pertain to accounts and are necessary to access the kind of API call that would return account rank. Had I not stored these account IDs locally, I would need to make extra API calls every time I want to update a single account's rank, which would double the amount of time to run.
- I also wanted my application to be usable for an average person, so putting something together that wasn't complex and didn't require too many specific inputs to get to where one wants to be was important to me. I don't have a layered menu for that reason, just 5 options and an option to close the program. 
